# Project

Sparkify is a music streaming startup.

Sparkify has grown its user base and song database and wants to move its processes, data, and data analytics applications onto the cloud.

Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, and a directory with JSON metadata for the songs in their app.

Build an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift.
Transform data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team.
Generate insights relevant to the business.



## Datasets

There are two datasets stored in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

- song data : s3://udacity-dend/song_data
- log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

The song dataset is a subset of song data from the [Million Song Dataset](http://millionsongdataset.com/). 
Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. 
The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. 

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. 
These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

## Python Scripts

The 2 scrips will help to populate the data to the AWS redshift cluster DWH system:

- **create_tables.py** - The script will create the tables by reading the SQL queries defined in **sql_queries** file.
- **sql_queries.py** - This will document all SQL queries to be fed into create_tables.py and etl.py file.
- **etl.py** - This will fill the tables via ETL process.

## Steps

### Create Table Schemas
- Design schemas for your fact and dimension tables
- Write a SQL CREATE statement for each of these tables in sql_queries.py
- Complete the logic in create_tables.py to connect to the database and create these tables
- Add redshift database and IAM role info to dwh.cfg.
- Test by running create_tables.py and checking the table schemas in your redshift database.

  
### Build ETL Pipeline
- Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift.
- Implement the logic in etl.py to load data from staging tables to analytics tables on Redshift.


## Insrtuctions

- create table schema
```
python create_tables.py
```

- Build ETL pipeline
```
python etl.py
```



  
